I’m sure you’re all struggling.
Yes. I have heard that copying a copyrighted work for
private use is okay,
but I have never confirmed the scope.
Is it okay among friends?
Now I’ll explain reproductions
for private use of copyrighted works.
First, let’s look at the relevant Article.
Article 30 (1) of the Copyright Law
(Reproduction for Private Use)
“Except in the following cases, a user may reproduce a work
that is subject to copyright
(hereinafter in this Subsection referred to as a “work”)
if the reproduction is for personal or family use or for
any other use of a similarly limited scope.”
I will touch on this, “the following cases” a little later.
Firstly, if you use it “for personal” or “family use or
for any other use of similarly limited scope,”
you should understand that it is possible to reproduce it due to
this "reproduction for private use" right limitation.
I don’t know if I can understand it.
What do you mean by “for personal use”?
It is not for a job but for personal use, for example, a hobby.
Also, when using it, the user must reproduce the copyrighted
work by themselves. This is a minor detail, but it's essential.
I see. In this case, Aoi used it, so Aoi must reproduce it.
Wait a minute. Before that, what does for family use and
other similarly limited scope mean?
Is it okay between friends like us?
Yes, that’s it. The Article has a genuinely vague expression.
Family means within the same family.
A limited scope equivalent to this does not have
an explicit criterion.
Still, it is said that a strong personal connection must be
established among the members.
However, even in a large or small circle of people,
there may be no strong personal connection.
For example, neighborhood associations,
are not considered to be applicable.
Judicial precedents state that to be “for any other use of
a similarly limited scope,”
“it is necessary to have an intimate and closed connection
at least to the extent equivalent to a family.”
“For personal use” is surprisingly narrow.
But we're very close, and it's just the three of us,
so I think we'll be okay.
However, if it's based on family...it’s a little tricky.
That’s right. I guess that’s what happens
if you interpret the Article literally.
In this case, it’s difficult to say
whether it’s absolutely impossible.
If Naoya had lent the book directly to Aoi instead of copying it,
there would have been no problem.
Sure! I'll do that next time.
Well, this time we’re talking about copying books,
but I heard that things like character portraits and
downloading files are also considered copies.
First of all, what does copying refer to?
Kasumi, you made an excellent point.
The voice has changed. Thank you very much.
Now, about reproductions.
There are various reproductions available
depending on the copyrighted work.
Reproduction includes printing books, magazines, and
other paper media you are familiar with on a copying machine.
In addition, reproductions include converting to PDF
with a scanner, taking a photo, and taking a video.
Oh, really? So, digitization is also a reproduction.
I make PDFs of heavy books and carry them around,
but I shouldn't share them with anyone else right?
That's right. There is no problem if you make PDFs for your use,
but you should not share them with others.
In addition, because you can reproduce them for private use only,
you cannot post them on social media or distribute them
to video-sharing websites for public transmission.
Be careful!
Yes, I understand.
There are also a few exceptions.
Reproduction by avoidance of technological protection;
Article 30(1)(ii) of the Copyright Law
Downloading from illegal sites,
Article 30(1)(iii) of the Copyright Law
The first point is
“reproduction by avoiding technical protection measures.”
Have you ever heard of copy protection?
I've heard of it. I often watch movies on streaming sites,
and some don't allow you to take screen captures.
That's preventing copying, right?
Yes.
You are not permitted to avoid copy protection
and reproduce such copy-protected works.
Also, you cannot reproduce copy-protected works if you know
that you have copyrighted works that were created
by avoiding copy protection.
I see.
I cannot reproduce distributed movies
with copy protection for private use.
That's right. Copy protection means you are not permitted
to reproduce in the first place,
so do not make reproductions.
Then, the next concerns “downloads from illegal sites.”
Earlier, Kasumi said that downloads are also reproductions, right?
You cannot reproduce the unauthorized downloads of illegally
distributed manga, books, newspapers, papers, software, etc.,
for private use while knowing they are illegal.
You may be subject to criminal penalties. Please be very careful.
I see!
You need to be especially careful with songs by artists
and TV shows from video-sharing websites!
Everyone, please follow the rules
and use copyrighted material with care.
Yes! We understand.